This week on Bold Names, we're talking
to Cristiano Aman. He's the CEO of
Qualcomm. The tech giant's claim to fame
is that it powers the device many of us
can't live without, the smartphone.
>> When you touch your smartphone, you have
a piece of Qualcom technology.
>> Now, Cristiano is looking to a future
dominated by our relationship with
artificial intelligence. So, what does
that look like? That's next.
Cristiano, thanks for joining Bold
Names. So excited to have you here. Your
company provides the guts to many of the
most popular digital devices out there.
I think if we were 100 years ago, it
would be like you're selling the engines
to Henry Ford himself. On top of that,
your company is working with the leading
tech companies that are developing
artificial intelligent devices. Uh the
really the physical manifestation of how
we're going to interact with AI. Uh your
your chips are in meta, smart glasses.
This perch you have allows you to see
the trends where things are going in the
industry. And so I'm curious, what does
the near future look like when it comes
to AI devices? What do you expect this
year, next year? How's the world
changing?
>> All right, that's a loaded question,
Tim. So, we're going to have to unpack
we're going to have to unpack that. Uh,
you know, we're the we're the company
doing the chips that the humans uh use.
And uh AI is changing everything. is
going to fundamentally change computers
and computing in general. You know, I
like to uh to think about it. AI is just
a different way that you're going to be
doing software and and architecture and
computing and how we interact with
computers. And I think that's the
probably the foundation to understand
what's going to happen while those
devices. And let me just start with a
very basic uh concept that I think we've
been talking for a couple years.
Actually, we start talking about this
before it was popular. I think we should
have trademarked the the terminology.
The AI is the new UI going forward. Uh
the computer now uh understand us. So we
don't have to learn how to interact the
computer device. What we say, what we
see uh all of those things going to be
understand by the computer. That's going
to change the computer, the OS, the
application. You
>> going to change how you interact with
this digital world. Right. Right now,
you go onto your smartphone if you want
to interact with AI, you go to the the
whatever app you like and it goes off to
the cloud and sends you an answer.
That's kind of the world. But you're
seeing it something much different now
is what you're talking about.
>> Yes. And and let's just start with
mobile devices because it's probably the
largest consumer electronic, you know,
product. It's actually the largest
platform ever created by uh mankind.
>> Yeah. It's it's a big driver for you.
Big revenue. Your biggest revenue
driver, right? Mobile phones, right?
Smart phones.
>> Yeah. We we we are working hard to
diversify but we love mobile. We're
always going to love mobile but let's
keep going down this uh thought process.
So now one of the things you're starting
to see is the emergence of new type of
mobile devices. We call them personal AI
devices. One example of that is the
glasses. I think you mentioned about the
meta glass. So glasses is very natural
because first of all I think uh you and
I been using glasses. I think humans use
glasses. They're not going to walk
around with big helmets, but they they
will be using glasses like this. It's
close to our senses. It's close to our
eyes, to our mouth, to our ears. When
you turn your head, uh whatever you
looking uh if you have a camera on it,
the model is looking. And we starting to
see those new type of computer human
interactions uh with computer pure
agentic applications because if you have
an agent now that is working with a
large language model or multiple large
language models and all of a sudden the
agent understand your intentions and is
connected to the internet then it can do
anything it replaces the app and it's
going to replace some of the workloads
and let me give you some example. I'm
going to make this very practical for
you.
>> Yeah, please.
>> So, let's say for example, I I like to
provide this example of banking because
all of us have, you know, a banking app.
So, you go today, you think about this
banking app. You pick up your phone, you
click on the icon. Here's Tim's uh
checking account. Here's Tim's uh
balance. I'm sure there's a ton of money
over there. His all his
>> Oh, absolutely. Bold names pays very
well. Yeah.
>> Yes. Who was his last few transactions,
right? and you're going to this thing.
You're going to have your smart glasses.
And you're going to see something you
want to buy. And you just ask the model,
"I would like to buy this. Uh, I
probably want to use uh the money I have
in my checking account. How much do I
have in my checking account?" And the
model will have your credentials like
you gave your credentials to the app and
we'll say, "This is how much you have.
What was the last five transactions? Did
that check uh, you know, uh, got
deposit?" Say, "Yes, it did. Can you buy
this for me?" You're going to get a
bill. You're going to look at the bill,
say, "Pay this for me. Please notify me
when I'm done. It's going to completely
change how we think about banking. And
this is going to be go everywhere. It's
going to be like call me an Uber, make a
reservation in this restaurant. And it's
going to also change how we interact.
For example, we're starting to see some
great use cases with uh Meta is doing on
the glasses. You can be on a WhatsApp
call. You start broadcasting that call.
Um how you think about social media. It
could be it's like I'm walking with my
buddy and I say, "Oh, who's this person
over there? Let me check. Oh, it's Tim.
You want to me say hi to him? So, that's
how mobile devices going to change.
We're just the beginning of the
transformation and just on those
personal eye devices.
>> Yeah. I guess I'm I'm curious. You're
bullish on glasses because really
good-looking people tend to wear
glasses. I think you and I agree with
that, right? Real stylish.
>> 100% agree with that.
>> But you you think there are other
function other form factors out there.
What are you bullish on other than
glasses?
>> Yes. So, we seen uh couple form factors.
We see glasses. We see earbuds. We've
seen jewelry. I think humans, you know,
been wearing jewelry and
>> pens or something like that on on the
lapel
>> pin pin pendants. We've seen watches. I
think this is exciting. And those things
going to work alongside your phone. Your
phone is going to have like a dual row.
It's going to keep doing phone things
and we'll be doing a lot of the
processing and having a front end of AI
in some of those applications. And it
it's kind of no different than what
we've seen before. Tim, I remember in
the early days of the smartphone, we all
used to do e-commerce on our laptop.
>> Not anymore. Most of the world right now
do e-commerce, buy things on Amazon, for
example, in the United States on their
phone. This is what's going to happen.
You're going to have those new devices
and you're going to start naturally
doing things on those new devices and
that's how the mobile uh ecosystem is
going to evolve.
>> You seems to to still you seem to remain
bullish on the phone. It's not going
away anytime soon. I think some in tech
see AI and the kind of the
personalization that it allows and kind
of the new ability for different kind of
apps and uh kind of new ecosystems to
emerge as an opportunity to displace
some of the smartphone makers. Right.
Let me elaborate on that because uh if
anything I think we have a little bit of
experience with the mobile industry u
few years of it huh
>> and we have seen I I hate to say it that
way uh but we have seen like a big uh
list of companies that went from hero to
zero like we've seen many of those and
and especially because you have big
technology transitions so companies can
change I think the players can change I
I think the companies that actually
capture value uh can change not
necessarily. I think uh the device can
change. Let me walk you to
>> some practical examples of that.
>> When the laptop was invented, everybody
said the desktop is dead. Desktop's not
dead. Not dead.
>> I wrote a few of those stories, I think.
>> But it changed. It became like it became
a workstation. It became a gaming PC.
You can see a lot of desktops in uh in
hospitality. You see it became a
different it dedicated to a particular
use case. Then when we started with the
smartphone a lot of people said the
laptop is dead. It's not dead. So I
think the phone is not going to go
anywhere. But some of the things you do
with your phone you're not going to do
with your phone. You're going to do
somewhere else. And here's a hint for
you. Whoever has the ability to
understand the human intention has the
opportunity to be a winner and capture
the most value. For example, if in the
future the assistant uh on your phone
becomes incredibly useful because it's
the agent that you chose to interact
with and maybe there's going to be
multiple agents. Once the agent
understands what Tim wants, whether it's
gonna uh go somewhere, tell me, you
know, about your my calendar, uh call
somebody, pay something. When the agent
understands the value on that
transaction is in the understanding of
the human intention and then the agent
is free to go to the internet, to go to
different apps and do everything. So
that information that's where the value
of the ecosystem is going to be. It's
not the OS, it's not the app store. It's
going to change. And I think we've seen
those generations of of a wireless
industry how those things have changed.
So I think we're going to see change
again. We don't know where they are, but
it's just it doesn't mean the phone is
going to disappear.
So you're you're talking about a world
where the these devices are picking up
all sorts of personal information about
the user and then they can use that
information to to help them navigate
their life. Right. I think there's some
concern that all that data going into
the cloud could be surveillance state or
it could be a privacy issue. What's your
kind of what's your thought on that?
>> Well, that's the reason there are
companies like Walcom. Uh look, a lot of
the things that we do is really what we
call on on the D edge.
>> Let's pack unpack that a little bit.
What do you mean by edge? Edge
computing, right?
>> Yes. Uh edge now is a term that has been
used for everything that is outside the
data center.
>> So it happens on your device.
>> It's Yes. Exactly. It's uh the processor
in your phone, in your PC, in your car.
So what's happening? This is actually a
good uh opportunity to talk about uh an
an interesting discussion that is
happening now with AI. There's often
this debate and about where are you
going to do the processing is are you
going to do the processing in the cloud?
You're going to do the processing on the
edge which means on your device which
one is better which one's going to win
and I think that's the wrong way to ask
the question and I go back to uh our
smartphones today. Our smartphone today
has a lot of processing power. Every
time we buy a new phone, we want a
faster processor. It is the most cloud
connected device. If you put on airplane
mode, you're going to be very frustrated
with your device. And you don't talk
about it. What's on the device was done
on the cloud. I think that's what the
future's going to be with AI. AI is
going to be there's certain things
you're going to do on device. There's
certain things going to do on the cloud
and it's simply going to got to work.
But that what you said before is a very
important question. When you think about
agents, context is really important. You
know, this is Tim. I know about Tim. I
know where Tim is right now. So, when he
asks me a question, I have to have that
context. Otherwise, I'm not very useful
for for Tim. Like, as uh especially if
this is an agent, he knows when when
you're at work or you're home, you need
it's like you're talking with another
human. So, that context is very
important. So we're developing chips for
example for what we call uh ambient AI,
perception AI. Those things run on your
device, provide an analysis of the
context on your device and inform uh the
agent on your device and is really going
to be the control of the user whether he
wanted to send those things to the cloud
or not. But I think we're going to see
that happening in the near future.
you're going to have processor that's
done a device with the intent of
actually having the ability to give you
that context.
>> When I think of uh kind of Qualcomm, I
think of those chips that you make that
are so efficient, which is why they're
so uh needed or so desired for
smartphones, but because they don't have
a lot of batteries, you know, you want
it to be able to last all day. That's
why I'm a little surprised that
increasingly we're hearing talk and you
talk about um kind of your role in data
centers, right? So much attention of AI
out there in the world is money going
into these data centers. That's how AI
is trained. It's how it operates. Lots
of money going to Nvidia for their
chips. Where do you see your spot there
to compete in the data center uh realm?
>> Yes. You know, if you actually go type
in uh on a Google search box on the
chatbt I think or Gemini ask the
question, you put it in on the search
data center and energy and you're going
to find a lot of news about that there's
a massive projection of growth of data
center.
>> They suck up so much energy those data
centers, right? They just require just a
lot of electricity. Elon Musk, he wants
to take data centers to the to outer
space because of solar power up there or
you hear all these other folks talking
about having nuclear reactors to keep
their their data centers humming. So
yeah, they suck up a lot of juice,
right?
>> So that's where you're going to see a
lot there's people are going to
basically saying this is the projection
of what we need in computing with a data
center. This is the availability of
energy. There's a disconnect,
>> right? So that's connected.
>> So that's where Qualcomm uh you know uh
could be an interesting player there
because our DNA comes from uh a battery
powered device. We have to design chips.
They're very efficient in power. And I
know we spend a lot of time talking
about phone. I like to provide this
example from an engineering standpoint.
The phone is super challenging because
you have GPUs that can do rate tracing
games. You have uh neuroprocessing units
doing multi-billion parameters AI at the
same time. Now you blast gigabit of data
speed to the base station. All of those
things that happen the device has to fit
in your pocket cannot get hot. Cannot
get hot. You're going to touch your face
with that device. And the battery has to
last all day. It doesn't matter how much
computing power. As engineers, we get a
budget that the battery is going to be
this size and has to last all day. So
that forces the development of very
power efficient computing. We become
successful because we have this computer
density with low power and why not take
that to the data centers. So you see
this the the limiting factor that
there's not enough electricity out in
the world for all these data centers is
really the place for you to come in and
find your own swim lane and to compete
>> 100%. which is interesting because we
are seeing I mean just so much attention
going onto these data centers right the
demand for AI computing power is also
creating a shortage of memory for
smartphones right and you've warned
that's going to hinder your business
what's happening there
>> it's interesting because uh uh we're
kind of one of the few companies to
start talking about this but given the
scale phone is a little bit of the you
know canary in the coal mine but here's
what's happening there's this mess
massive buildout on data center and the
existing solutions today are using this
memory called HBM
uh which is high bandwidth memory for
data centers. So a lot of the memory
companies today they had prioritized the
buildout of using their factory
capacities to build HBM for the data
center. There was this much memory
capacity in the world. uh as a lot of
those go to the data center whatever was
left became available for consumer
electronics and you see memory in the
consumer electronic devices in two ways
you have your DRAM that's when you buy a
phone and a PC how much memory is going
to have 8 gigabyt 16 gigabyte and then
you have your storage which is like
flash uh or NAND and what we saw is the
amount of memory that was available to
the consumer electronic devices are now
less than was available last year. So I
think what I just said in the last
earnings call until the situation
resolves memory will will define the
size of the market and I think we've
seen that impacted in phones and what's
kind of interesting because we just had
a record quarter in the 40 years of com
the company we had the record revenue
quarter for the company revenue uh
record in mobile demand is high people
want to buy new phones but it's just
going to be defined by the availability
of memory. Phones not immune to this.
PCs not immune to this. Gaming consoles
are not immune to this. Everything that
it's consumer electronic is going to be
fighting for memory. Uh with this data
center buildout,
>> it's frothy out there, right? Do you see
any parallels what's going on around the
excitement, the boom around AI with the
kind of the last big boom and then bust
of the dot era 25 years ago? So I think
the the first comparison between the two
if you if you go back to the year 2000
and you look how people imagine at the
time what the internet would be and you
look right now in 2026 26 year later we
can probably say without any doubt the
internet today is way bigger than people
thought internet will be in 2000.
Whatever they thought in 2000 they're
not thinking big enough is bigger today.
Now, did they happen all in one year?
No, it did not. It went through a
through a process to get to that. So, I
think it's the same with AI. As I said
before, AI is kind of this new form of
computing is going to is going to change
everything. Probably in the long run
bigger than what people think it is
today. How fast we get there and are we
going to keep going at that speed? Are
we going to accelerate? Are we going to
take a pause? It's really hard to
predict. The other thing that is
interesting when you make those
comparisons in back then and I know this
is going to show my age right I've been
been doing this for a while but
>> you've been at the company since what
1995 you started as an engineer
>> 1995 I joined an engineer in 1995 been
the company for 30 years actually it's
going to be 31 uh 2026 but if you go
back at that time
the winners of social it wasn't very
clear it wasn't my space it was Facebook
it was Instagram
Uh it wasn't Map Quest that won the map
space. It was uh it's Google Maps. So
we'll see what happens. I think we're in
the very early days. Now it is true that
AI is is a revolutionary technology and
it's it's probably only get get bigger.
Now let me give you now a different
perspective.
>> Yeah.
>> You have all this money going to
creation of AI but eventually people
want to make money on it. you're going
to have to have a return on all the
investment and that's when you that's
when you move from training to what we
call inferencing. inferencing exactly
when once you already develop the AI and
you start asking question and AI start
answer your questions or doing things
for you and generate tokens that's
called inferencing you just now put the
AI into production training you created
an AI inference you put it into
production that's where you're going to
get paid so when you start operating the
computing with inference the metrics are
very very different than the ones you
use for training how much money does it
cost me to operate this compute, what is
my total cost of ownership, how much
power do I use, how much this computer
cost, how much is the architecture
memory and we said I think before it was
popular that the architecture for the
future of inference is probably going to
be the postGPU architecture uh where the
data center is going to get disagregated
into different functions and you're
going to try to find the most efficient
computer to do that because now you're
in the business of operating that
compute and I think that's going to be
probably the next cycle. We're about to
enter the cycle of inferencing in the
data center and the opportunities in the
players may be a little bit different.
>> Yeah. I mean, I think you're getting
this kind of interesting kind of
exciting thing about being an
entrepreneur. The exciting thing about
Silicon Valley is when there's a new
idea, there's a lot of money that goes
to it. It's not really efficiently
probably used. It's it's for growing.
It's for experimenting. to to try to get
big faster, but at a certain point you
got to pivot and you got to
industrialize. You got to monetize. I
think that's what you're getting at.
>> That's an opportunity.
>> I do wonder when you look at the the the
bubble of of 2000 around the dot,
is there anything there that you can
kind of use today to think about how to
be a winner uh in kind of a boom era?
And it sounds like to you it's figuring
out how to monetize as quickly as
possible.
>> That is correct. Look, there's no
question that everything that got built
in the 2000 got fully utilized. And I
think that's going to be the case.
Nothing's going to go to waste. I think
you you build computing, you're going to
use you build u you know uh broadband
connectivity, you're going to use it,
you're going to build those networks,
you're going to use it. But as as you
starting to think about the different
business model, how going to people use
an AI, eventually you're going to have
the most competitive operator, right?
And those things will matter. They don't
matter right now if everybody's trying
to create, you know, a product, but then
what is going to be somebody's product
competing against somebody else's
product? It's going to be the capability
and the cost to operate. And I think uh
uh some companies are going to be better
prepared than others to do with that. We
saw that. We saw that I think in in the
history of the internet.
>> Well, Cristiano, thank you for joining
us today. This has been a great
conversation.
>> My pleasure. Uh thank you for your time
as well.
[music]